Have you ever thought that the amount of taxes you are paying is way too high?  Have you ever been given a speeding ticket for going 5 miles over the posted speed limit?  Have you ever thought that these laws are unjust?  If so, do you feel bound to break these laws?  People all over the world break laws that that are unjust.  Henry David Thoreau said, “If a law is unjust, but the lawmaking process can’t overturn the law in a timely way, then justice demands that the law be broken.”  I favor this view: if a law is unjust and is not overturned by the appropriate governing body as soon as possible, then that law should not be followed and should not be upheld.  But by what criteria do we judge a law to determine if it is unjust?
Is a law unjust just because an individual believes it is unfair?  There are a lot of laws in place that many individuals chose to break each day.  Following posted speed limits and coming to a complete stop at a stop sign come to mind.  Traffic laws are the most widely broken in the United States, if not the entire world.  But since they are widely broken, does that mean that the individuals who break these laws believe they are unjust or that these laws are just in place to hinder travel?  But aren’t traffic laws in place to protect the public from undue harm from vehicles?  In the US, the Law of Eminent Domain allows the US Government to seize privately held land for use by public entities with compensation from the government.  This is widely considered an unjust law.  So, what constitutes an unjust law?  There are many interpretations, but most seem to converge on any law taken from an individual or group without regard to moral consideration or adverse effects on the individual or group.  Such an example would be segregation, which divided the nation into whites and everyone else, forcing minorities, but especially African Americans, to be apart from white society.  It's kind of an out of sight out of, out-of-mind deal.  How can a law be just when it benefits one group at the expense of another?
Some laws that are considered unjust are designed that way because the benefit for the majority outweighs the negative effect on the individual or small group.  Eminent Domain comes to mind again.  Is it just that the government should force the sale and purchase of land owned by a family for a hundred years to build a super highway?  The law is considering the benefits to the public.  One only needs to think about the benefits to commerce, the time savings for transportation and shipping that equates to fuel consumption, and the speed at which the average citizen can travel.  Some might say that the land owner could buy more land, but that land would not be where they went camping, swimming, or spent so many summers growing up.  The loss really can’t be summoned up to a monetary value.
So many laws can be considered unjust, and even more are known to be unfair.  The United States has a system that can correct these wrongs. The cases of slavery and segregation have proven that unjust laws can be abolished.  But at what cost was slavery worth a war that nearly tore the country apart? Yes, and almost all, if not all, would agree.  It is said that evil flourishes when good people do nothing.  